[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to Healthy Habit
number 4, which is meditation.
I love doing meditation
after breath work, which
is why we put it in spot four
because the breathing helps
to calm your body and to
prepare a place of stillness.
And this class has been
handpicked for you.
It is a class with Laurentine.
And I really hope that
you enjoy it and it helps
to bring more peace,
happiness, and reduced anxiety
and stress in to your morning.
>> Hi, I'm Laurentine.
And today, I'd like to guide
you through this beautiful
Gratitude Meditation.
This practice is
designed to help
you relax, destress, and
find peace in your life,
which in turn helps to heal
your body, clear your mind,
and for you to engage
more positively
with the world around you.
This Gratitude
Meditation is a process
which will guide you
through finding those things
in your life that you
can be grateful for,
like your family, your friends,
a warm fire, a great book,
your beautiful body, a
body that heals itself,
an ability to serve, an ability
to help others to experience
joy, to see a sunset, to
put your feet on the ground,
or to be alive just another day.
The more we can
invite gratefulness
into our life as a daily
ritual, the more things
will show up in our
life to be grateful for.
Now, the best place
to do this meditation
is either sitting up
straight, lying in Shavasana,
or lying in bed either before
you fall asleep or first thing
in the morning before you open
your eyes when your mind is
still somewhat half asleep.
And if you're using
a gratitude bracelet,
you can count along
with the mala beads
starting from the
tassel and working
your way around the bracelet
until you hit the tassel again.
If you don't have one,
that's perfectly fine.
You don't need one specifically
to do this practice.
I hope you enjoy
this meditation,
so please let's begin.
Closing our eyes, we're
going to start with three
deep, long, slow breaths.
Let's breathe in
together and out.
And in and out.
Releasing and letting go of
any unwanted tension, anything
that may be coming
up for you right now,
anything that's no
longer serving you
from the day, any
guilt, fear, or shame.
Just letting go of
everything right now.
And now let's think about the
things that we're grateful for.
And what is the first thing
that pops up into your mind?
The first thing that you're
grateful for right now.
And say it in your mind's eye.
I'm grateful for-- and really
think about it and feel it.
And just imagine it
in your mind's eye.
And now what's the next thing
that you're grateful for?
And concentrating on the
feeling, the emotion of it.
And what's the next thing
that you're grateful for?
And then imagine that particular
thing that you're grateful for,
that person, that
experience, that opportunity.
And then what's another
thing that you're
grateful for right now?
And let it flow through you--
the things that
you're grateful for,
and the feelings, the thoughts.
And if something comes
up that makes you smile,
just go deeper
into that thought.
Really experience and
feel into that thought.
And now let's be
grateful for our body.
Think about how great
our body has been for us.
And if we're experiencing any
pain or any system issues,
let's be grateful for them
too, because they give us
the opportunity to heal,
and give us the opportunity
to slow down, and give
us the opportunity
to focus on that
area of our body
which needs love and kindness.
Let's be grateful for our
mind, our intelligence.
neck and our shoulders that
help to carry our head high
as we move through life.
Let's be grateful for
our arms, for our ability
to use them to
create, prepare food,
to write, to read,
and to embrace.
Let's be grateful
now for our heart
that beats without
us even having
to think about it
thousands of times a day,
serving our body with
oxygen-rich blood,
so that we may be
strong and healthy
and continue to live
this human experience.
Let's be grateful now for
our stomach and our gut,
and its ability to digest
the food that we eat and just
know that it's there
for us to be nourished.
And let's be grateful
for our legs that
carry us in this earth--
our feet, our toes.
Just think about anything
else in your body
that you're grateful
for right now.
And in the last part of
this Gratitude Meditation,
let us be grateful for
things in the future
that we wish to happen.
Let us be grateful for them
now rather than pray for them
in the future.
Let's be grateful for
them in the present
almost as if they
already happened.
I'm so grateful now that
I've secured my dream job,
or found the love of my life,
or you fill in the blank.
How does it feel when
you achieve this big goal
that you're thinking
about right now?
How good would it feel?
Imagine that feeling right now.
And let's think about that
health goal that you have.
What is it that you want
to achieve with your health
and imagine being grateful
for that right now.
What would it feel like to
be that healthy right now?
And what would you do with
that new-found health?
And let's think
about the experience
that you wish to
experience and that you
wish to have in your life.
And imagine just one
particular experience
you've been dreaming of.
And just imagine how
grateful that you'd
be for this experience
and bring that gratitude
into the present moment.
And now think about the
lineage of your family.
Let's think about seeing
that evolve into the future.
What that would be
like, and look like,
and how beautiful
seeing your children
grow older and your
grandchildren grow older?
If you don't have
any children, just
see yourself becoming
a beautiful old member
of the community that's
respected and loved with lots
friends and family around you.
And just imagine how grateful
you feel for that experience.
And now as we come towards the
end of this meditation, let's
be grateful for the things
that are going to happen today.
Maybe you've got an
exciting meeting at work
or catching up with a friend.
Imagine the great things that
are going to come out of today
and be grateful
for that right now.
Maybe you're seeing a
family member today.
And we're just going
to think how grateful
that we are to be able
to experience that.
Maybe you have some other
things planned for your day.
And just imagining them
going well, and being
here in the evening
or in the next day
and being grateful
for that experience
that you've just had.
And now to finish
this meditation,
we're going to take
three, deep, long breaths.
And breathing in and out.
And in and out.
And in and releasing.